so this is the kind of video you don't
get very much on YouTube and it's the
kind of feedback you don't get very much
in real life not in academia not in any
kind of theater I can imagine
um it is read of all that in 2018 it is
genuinely necessary for me to mention
that I am F nicly Jewish not a member of
the Jewish faith I'm an atheist um I did
grow up knowing one Holocaust survivor
it would be ridiculous if I knew ten
there aren't that many around and for my
generation I'm only only 40 years old so
obviously most of them are deceased of
old age and I was growing up I do have
connections to the Holocaust in my
family and also just nerves my interest
in political history there are ways in
which is something I positively care
about and I'm someone who has visited
Holocaust museums I can't quite say all
over the world the two that really stand
out in my memory we recently went to
basically two different Holocaust
museums in in France in Paris Paris
France and many years ago I went to the
Holocaust Museum in Washington DC I have
probably been to other Holocaust museums
and because of my parents MIT T because
of my parents peculiar profession
Holocaust museums and human rights
museums were a big part of my life
growing up hearing about the changing
tide in musial Aegean government policy
of governments around the world more and
more making an effort to build you know
multi-million dollar institutions big
budget museums that were based around
immortalizing ideas and that were not
built around interpreting objects so the
sort of classical Western museum is
Avaaz on a pedestal with a label and we
all know that's not the purpose and
that's not the format of a Holocaust
Museum and my parents were two of the
most influential people in that
transitional period culturally and
bureaucratically as governments around
the world started to make what what they
called idea museums and we all know one
of the reasons why Holocaust museums
exist is that there is a small but vocal
minority all around the world trying to
claim that the Holocaust didn't happen
or did
or that some revisionist position in
history should be should be taken on it
so this is a case where or setting down
the basic facts of history in contrast
to to generalize the ignorance is more
of a struggle than I don't know in
almost any other province you know if
you were gonna make a museum taking
seriously the history of First Nations
people indigenous people you know you'd
face ignorant you'd face contempt you'd
face indifference many people just don't
want to know what that history but you
would not face organized conspiratorial
thinking on the way that Judaism almost
uniquely in the 21st century the history
of the Jewish people it's really about
Jewishness not Judaism faces global
hostility on an unbelievable scale
unbelievable depth and intensity you
know when I was a kid I thought that was
going to style I thought when I grow up
this is gonna be a thing of the past
we're gonna look back on like the decade
of the 1980s is the decade when it's
acceptance of what's fainting out but no
I mean if anything I think it's a more
powerful force in society and you know
there's Eastern European eighty Semitism
there's Islamic anti-semitism there's
like American white neo-nazi
anti-semitism there are really many
different schools of anti-semitism
they're all very vocal very active so I
say this as a disclaimer at the start of
this video because what I'm about to do
is criticize a particular Holocaust
Museum I digress briefly to come right
back to my point just yesterday
I reached out to and sent some email to
a guy they were actually Facebook
messages same thing a guy here on
YouTube who is an activist for the vegan
cause he does animal rights and veganism
and he is a guy who said a lot of really
embarrassing things about communism
lately making pro-communist statements
and I thought it was interesting that
his audience had the moral fiber to
stand up to him and say hey
this stuff you're saying about communism
you're actually you know justifying and
making excuses for running roughshod
over the deaths of tens of millions of
people this is an issue that were
there's a huge body count so you know
you sound ignorant as hell you got to
really reconsider what you're saying
here this is a disservice there move all
this this kind of warning being given to
him I thought both of those things were
interesting and it is very strange that
murder on the scale of millions of
people is handled so differently in the
context of the history of communism than
it is in the history of fascism but I
took some time to reach out to this guy
and say hey look I realize you're
probably saying these things that
ignorance but this is who I am this is
my academic background this is why I
know so much about the reality of
communism including the events that
killed tens of millions of people at a
time of which there are many many
separate discrete events that it's not
it's not just one Holocaust in the case
of the history of communism history of
Russia history of China history of
Cambodia there all these different
examples you can draw on in different
periods lasted much longer than the Nazi
regime last in Germany but what I'm
fundamentally dealing with there is the
puzzle of ignorance in politics and we
tend to think about morality as if we're
all making informed choices between
alternatives that have been set out on
the table in front of us and were not
almost all of us if you think about a
deck of cards being laid out in the
table the problem is precisely people
are only looking at the cards they're
only looking at the options that they're
already aware of they're rarely seeking
out and examining new options so when
you're talking to somebody like that
there's an interesting question of
making the effort to say hey look I'm
not here to just damn you and condemn
you and I wrote to him saying look I
assume you really can't understand why
these people are responding in this
harshly in this harsh man are condemning
you but as a hypothetical thought
experiment
think about how you would feel if one of
your relatives like I don't know you're
at Thanksgiving dinner and your uncle if
one of your
started saying positive things about
Adolf Hitler about the history of the
Nazi Party think about the combination
of embarrassment and awkwardness and
shame and I know maybe some anger and
outrage you'd feel and you think what am
I gonna do am I gonna sit down with
Uncle Charlie and really try to talk him
through the history of World War two am
I gonna just walk out of the room am I
just gonna laugh in his face you know
what's what what are you gonna do in
this situation and it's very very rare
for people to reach you up positively
and try to address these these questions
you can't make the right choice when you
don't even know what the options are and
that's really one of the tragedies of
politics in 21st century you know to
some extent people act in their rational
self-interest but to a much greater
extent they act out of a real ignorant
of both historical context and of the
alternatives that are that are presently
available them and frankly that's why I
think this question of how the Holocaust
is interpreted and memorialized and
taught to the next generation that's why
I think it's so important and I've known
people um I mean I was recently talking
to a guy who's you know basically
Palestinian grew up connected to
Palestine and obviously he grew up with
a version of the history of Israel and
Palestine remarkably different from you
know the version of history as I know it
and you know we actually had a pretty
productive conversation where I was
telling him some facts they really were
neutral objective facts and he could
google them and see oh wow
here's this other side of the history
and story I didn't know at all that kind
of dialogue you might think of the 21st
century the internet was gonna foster
that that if there's gonna be a
blossoming of this kind of challenging
of preconceptions challenging of
preconceptions as never before but as we
all know the effect of the internet
tends instead to retrench people into a
narrow chorus of conformist opinion that
just affirms their sense of
self-righteousness so that is why it is
so important for Holocaust museums to
tell the truth and it's not just
Holocaust museums when was the last time
you saw a museum
dealing with the reality of the history
of the British Empire the Queen of
England got rich dealing dope literally
the British Empire was a heroin Empire
they stopped making money at a slavery
they said how are we gonna make money
it's gonna be dealing dope and they
became the world's greatest opium
dealing ring opium and heroin are the
same drug in case you didn't know there
are two different forms of the same drug
made it at the same poppy it is true it
was called opium back then and not
heroin but I digress who is going to
deal with that history it's so easy to
use this this I don't know this worn out
cliche learning the lessons of history
was it really mean well I'll tell you
what it means if you're making a
Holocaust Museum in the city of Detroit
you have to tell the aspect of the
history of the Holocaust that is linked
to Detroit and that takes courage it
takes courage to be a curator in a city
where the the Main Street is named after
Henry Ford where the biggest museum the
biggest institutions the biggest
skyscrapers are all named after Henry
Ford where the Ford Corporation
hospitals are have Ford's name on them
where memorials and statues to the
greatness of Henry Ford are everywhere
it takes courage to stand up against
that cultural expectation and say guess
what Henry Ford wasn't just a fascist
with a lowercase F Henry Ford was
directly linked to Adolf Hitler Henry
Ford was a powerful part of the
production of the uniquely Nazi form of
anti-semitism Henry Ford invented the
form of conspiracy thinking the form of
modern anti-semitism that still exists
with us to this day and that was a
crucial part of the development of Nazi
ideology guess what Henry Ford literally
had a picture of Adolf Hitler on his
desk in his office with displayed with
admiration and simultaneously in
Nazi Germany Adolf Hitler had a
photograph of Henry Ford the admiration
was mutual
I just fact checked this I saw several
sources claiming that in both cases it
was a portrait on their desk on on the
table but the actual photographic
evidence I've seen was actually that
that Hitler had a picture of Henry
forward on his wall of his office like a
poster sized picture of him in a frame
of all um maybe both
maybe I mean maybe Hitler had more than
one office just this kind of detail I
don't know about Henry Ford I've
addressed this on this channel before
published vitriolic insane anti-semitic
conspiracy theories that changed the
course of world history all right he
really did innovate and say things that
had not been said before and that came
from the position of someone who was at
that time the most admired industrialist
and technological innovator in the world
Henry Ford at that time was much more
respected than today the leader of
Microsoft Corporation or Apple
Corporation at that time he was one of
the titans of industry and you know he
was seen he was seen as having changed
the world for the better especially in
Germany Germany with its tradition of
industrial engineers and it's not just
something academic Germany a country
that in that time was really committed
to the notion of science technology and
heavy industry transforming them pulling
them out of you know the bucolic past
into a modern future and so on Henry
Ford he just as a man was a powerful
symbol in Germany and the impact of him
creating his own newspaper and
publishing his own dedicated books
inventing and propelling anti-semitic
theories who is he huge Henry Ford was
both a proto Nazi in that he was part of
the generation of and definition of what
Nazi Oh ideology was and became and then
once Nazism once fascism became a
maturity ology in Germany he flew to
Germany and received a medal for made
Hitler never forget that they met person
in person and why did he laugh Hitler
give Henry Ford a medal not for being a
great industrialist not for his
innovations in science in technology he
was given a medal for his contributions
to anti-semitism for the development of
anti-semitism okay so that is the
crucial chapter of the history of the
Holocaust that happened in Detroit
Michigan if you go to a Holocaust Museum
in Paris they probably won't mention it
if you go to a Holocaust Museum in
Israel they may or may not mention it
it's not something happened in Israel
even if you go to the Holocaust Museum
in Washington DC or Los Angeles it may
get a very brief mention benefit but
guess what if you're in Detroit if
you're creating a Holocaust Museum in
Detroit for the people of Detroit for
the future of Detroit about the history
of Detroit don't you [ __ ] pretend
that the most important thing about
Detroit was that they used to
manufacture tanks there to fight in
World War two that's ridiculous
the man who is still celebrated on every
street corner of your city as a local
hero was a villain and he wasn't used to
dealing in some generalized sense he
wasn't some fascist with no particular
link to anti-semitism or the August he
was absolutely the worst type of fascist
he was literally more despicable than
Goebbels this is ridiculous and and
where's the reckoning of history even in
2018 well I could read it to you I
photographed the only mention of Henry
Ford and his connect connections to
Nazism in the whole museum because I was
looking for it I went through your
Holocaust Museum in in Detroit and you
know here here's the wording after the
war comma Henry Ford allowed the
protocols of the Elders of Zion to be
reprinted in his newspaper that Dearborn
independent his name also appeared on
the book on a book the International Jew
containing many similar ideas to those
in the protocols he was sued for libel
in 1927 and apologized
we calling copies of the newspaper he
never allowed his name to be used in
anti-semitic activity again if that is
not a whitewash I don't know what is
when your version of the history of
Henry Ford is connections to Nazism
anti-semitism looks like a whitewash
compared to Wikipedia it calls into
question the most basic premise of why a
Holocaust Museum should exist at all if
you can't do better than Wikipedia if
you can't speak truth to power why does
your museum exist at all because it
doesn't exist for the reasons why
traditional museums exist it doesn't
exist because you have a vods that you
want to display with a label or a
collection of paintings it's not an
object oriented object driven Museum the
reason why it exists is to reach out to
people and educate people and make them
aware make them aware of the cards laid
out in the table by history make them
aware of the legacy of the last hundred
years 500 years whatever it's going to
be and what the options are and the
decisions are now that they're making
and how those really connect with the
history the banality of evil is that
people today still make excuses and
justifications for mass murder under
communism and some of them know what
they're doing some of them do it
consciously and intentionally but the
vast majority of them do it out of sheer
ignorance and that is the banality of
evil and what you're trying to counter
here is not really the conscious and
intentional evil of the tiny minority of
people who are really making excuses for
Adolf Hitler who are really making
excuses for Henry Ford it's to enlighten
the people who are participating who are
complicit in that evil out of sheer
ignorance